now i have several prior videos in this
and i do not want to become the guy who
talks about vivisection on youtube
however in 2016 i may be the guy who
talks about the section i kicked it open
I mean other vegans just do not tackle
this or do not deal with the necessary
way that admits of the complex gray
areas and overlapping kind of moral
jurisdictions this gets you into it's
easy for us as vegans to say people
should stop eating meat because they can
eat tofu but if you do the research it
is not so easy to say we should stop
doing original scientific research
because we have tofu tofu tofu cannot
render these experiments absolutely I've
honest yen just you know create a fairly
popular vegan youtube channel and then
sit back and wait for someone awesome to
contact to you it's pretty as the
ballast CL recommended in one of his
billions of
I bus yen i would post it here but i
won't know which one too many videos
it's too many hey what's up guys one of
the first things I've said on this
channel because I think it's a really
useful challenge to the political and
organizational conceits that many vegans
have was that if you want to tackle
vivisection you have to cooperate with
people who disagree with you you have to
be able to cooperate with people who are
insiders in the system including people
who actually conduct scientific research
themselves they're the people who know
what you need to know their the crucial
partners you've got to have on board if
you're going to make a difference in the
real world and I got a letter I got fan
mail in effect from a guy who is an
insider who is conducting biological
research including some experiments that
exploit animals now in my prior videos I
alluded to the crucial role that
moderate people can have in these
debates and by moderates I meant
scientists who do torture animals to
death um but who are interested in
minimizing that torture so those would
be people who are not vegan but who
share with vegans the concern that some
of the animal research is unnecessary ie
that the whole experiment isn't
necessary or that the particular
suffering caused by the design of the
experiment is necessary people who see
the moral value in trying to minimize
the evils of vivisection pardon me but
people who are not abolitionists or who
are not calling immediately for an end
to all such scientific research hello
izel he writes I've thought about
mailing you for a while and never got
around to it put your recent video
vivisection the next ten years made me
think of a couple points I'd like to
share with you I'm a recent graduate
working in comparative immunology and
about to start a PhD in global health at
a major UK University i've been vegan
for just over a year and was vegetarian
before that a few years ago I went on a
four day training program on murine /
Mouse experimentation and was about this
time I went vegetarian period
so again I ask the question this is rare
this is extraordinary but in a sense we
should wonder why why is it rare why is
it extraordinary I'm tempted here to add
some some autobiographical reflections
but I mean if anything on earth is going
to make you pause and reflect
philosophically on the contradictions
within our culture of of animal
exploitation it might indeed be a and
experience just such as this one I was
already thinking about that stuff when I
was a high school student the guy doing
the training was Vance was vastly
experienced in animal research having
worked on everything from rats to pigs
to dogs and spent the four days
delivering material on anesthesia a
minor surgery euthanasia animal behavior
etc Oh though he had not trained
formally as a biologist ie started out
as a young animal technician and worked
his way up I was amazed at how much he
knew about animals on the first day he
gave an introductory talk that touched
on perspectives regarding animal
research and to my surprise he actually
touched on the hypocrisy of meat eaters
who are against animals killed for
research sorry pardon me who are against
animal research I've attached the
graphic he used in his presentation
which shows the magnitude of animals
killed for food versus animals killed by
cats and animals killed for research
this really made me think deeply about
my carnivorous diet and shortly after I
came home I went vegetarian although it
was a little while before I went vegan
I'm still grateful to this guy for
making me realize whether he meant to or
not that I could no longer justify my
decision to eat meat I think in the UK
whether they realize it or not most of
the public except that the use of
animals and experiments is more valuable
than their role in agriculture that's
probably why the majority the public
here support animal research however
there are still large areas of ignorance
a recent survey done in England showed
that only around half of the 4,000
participants knew that animal testing
for cosmetics is illegal here in Britain
and the EU and that importing animal
tested cosmetics into the UK is against
the law clearly testing cosmetics on
rabbits is very different from testing
vaccines on rodents so there is much
work to be done in helping the public
make the distinction between animal
testing and animal research pause now
for practical purposes for this
discussion for my viewers for the type
of people who are intelligent enough to
keep watching this channel and not just
get offended and storm out of the room
what he just said is not controversial
but it's worth pausing to consider that
that too many vegans this is
controversial there are many people who
would insist on the contrary that no
testing a vaccine is identical to
testing lipstick to testing cosmetics
there are vegans who refuse to make this
distinction and in many ways that's just
the debate we're all avoiding having but
you know if your moral position is that
no research neither cancer nor vaccine
or anything else there is no form of
research that can justify torturing an
animal to death neither a rat nor monkey
that is a position I I respect and I
think in a university debating room I've
been a fill-in a philosophy department I
think that's a debate worth having
meanwhile down at Parliament Hill we got
a deal this week we have a real-life set
of murky contradictions and questions of
what is the real difference we can make
now in the next 10 years we got to roll
up our sleeves and cooperate with people
like this this guy is incredibly rare
this guy is a vegan or a would be vegan
or a semi vegan this guy wants to be
vegan who's working in a laboratory
currently torturing shellfish to death
you know this guy is one in a million
right now this is exactly the person you
need on your team if you have a vegan
charity a vegan organization a vegan
lobbying group well you know illegally
sitting down with a lawyer trying to put
together a you know set of proposals for
real reforms this is the kind of
perspective you really need to hear even
if you disagree with it even if it's
wrong even if it's evil okay I've said
this to many times lately I don't want
to be right I want to win if you are
going to play to win this is the dude
you need on your team there are vegans
who be offended that I'm not just taking
the simplistic abolitionist position of
saying what all of this research has to
stop and has to stop tomorrow because I
say so
it's humbling to recognize that you live
in a democratic society where you're in
the minority even if you think you're
ethically right even if you think you're
your minority is is correct having a
truly democratic public accountability
accountable process pertaining to animal
exploitation research I have no doubt
that many projects would be approved but
that would create a stark divide okay
are you going to torture a monkey to
death to allegedly find the cure for
cancer and is that claim credible and a
public scrutiny look at whether or not
this research is legitimate heirs that's
one thing but you would immediately see
the disappearance of torturing an animal
a monkey to death just for psychological
research which we have had a lot of in
the Western world again I mentioned that
the earlier video had a link to an
example but like the psychological
experiments like you're just torturing
animals death to see how miserable they
are afterwards really that is not an
exaggeration you can look into examples
that will give you nightmares including
the pit of despair experiments yes we do
have a bad history in the Western world
of torturing animals death including
monkeys and primates for no outcome that
could be justified in this this type of
situation if you have someone working
inside the given industry in this case
inside the animal experimentation
biology research industry what they're
familiar with is almost like Lee to be
the opposite maybe personally you're
involved with one of those terrible
experiments but if not you know you may
only know about mediocre expert you may
have a sense of what's average of what's
normal in the industry but you may be
blinded to the extremes and in
legislation we need to be cognizant of
both with violence we need legislation
that addresses extreme violence you know
extreme human behavior of all kinds no
matter how improbable and we also need
to have social systems that are aware of
what's normal what's average what's
common and not to treat them all in in
the same category for the time being for
many experiments vertebrate or
invertebrate animals are all we've got
pause so just mention in my early
video I said that in a pity way where I
said look you know it's easy for us as
vegans to say people should stop eating
meat because they can eat tofu but if
you do the research it is not so easy to
say we should stop doing original
scientific research because we have tofu
tofu tofu cannot render these
experiments obsolete so again for the
time being in 2016 with vegans being a
despised minority with no no power with
no pull if public I'm not looking at
eliminating this absolutely because I
don't think I can in the next 10 years
I'm looking at ways to make the process
transparent public countable to deepen
democracy in reference to vivisection
and hope that will limit it and start a
sort of long-term cyclical change that
eventually may be able to eliminate
vivisection or at least make it very
marginal very rare very exceptional
eliminate ninety-nine point nine percent
of it
if you are taking the time out of your
day to worry about this to me your real
vegan activist and you give me hope that
in the next 10 years we really can make
a difference we can do more than just
sitting in front of our video cameras
and complaining